Create diagnosticsource-getting-started.md (#29255)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/diagnosticsource-diagnosticlistener.md

    void Write(string name, object value);
```

A typical call site will look like:

```C#
    if (httpLogger.IsEnabled("RequestStart"))
        httpLogger.Write("RequestStart", new { Url="http://clr", }); //any object can be the second argument
```

Architectural elements shown in the above code are as follows.
Every event has a `string` name (e.g. `RequestStart`), and exactly one `object` as a payload.
If you need to send more than one item, you can do so by creating an `object` with all information
in it as properties. C#'s [anonymous type](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/types/anonymous-types)
feature is typically used to create a type to pass 'on the fly', and makes this scheme very
convenient. At the instrumentation site, you must guard the call to `Write()` with an `IsEnabled()` check on
the same event name. Without this check, even when the instrumentation is inactive, the rules
of the C# language require all the work of creating the payload `object` and calling `Write()` to be
done, even though nothing is actually listening for the data. By guarding the `Write()` call, we
make it efficient when the source is not enabled.

> 

Reviewer: You might to introduce the code you are working with at the top of the section and then explain it as you go. To make this example a little more realistic we should probably change the naming. In practice a developer would be starting with some code that does some useful work and then they modify that code to add logging. The names of the class and method would still be based on the original work the class was doing.

```C#
// before adding logging
class HttpClient
{
    byte[] SendWebRequest(string url)
    {
        // pretend this sends an HTTP request to the url and gets back a reply
        byte[] reply = new byte[] {};
        return reply;
}
    
// after adding logging
class HttpClient
{
    private static DiagnosticSource logger= new DiagnosticListener("System.Net.Http");
    public byte[] SendWebRequest(string url)
    {
        if (logger.IsEnabled("RequestStart"))
        {
            httpLogger.Write("RequestStart", new { Url = url });
        }
        // pretend this sends an HTTP request to the url and gets back a reply
        byte[] reply = new byte[] {};
        return reply;
    }
}
```

Observers. Once connected, the Observer gets callbacks (mostly `OnNext` callbacks) when things
happen. By including the `System.Reactive.Core` NuGet package, you can gain access to extensions that work well with `IObservable`.

A typical use of the `AllListeners` static property looks like this:

```C#
    class Observer<T> : IObserver<T>
    {
        public Observer(Action<T> onNext, Action onCompleted)
        {
            _onNext = onNext ?? new Action<T>(_ => { });
            _onCompleted = onCompleted ?? new Action(() => { });
        }

        public void OnCompleted() { _onCompleted(); }
        public void OnError(Exception error) { }
        public void OnNext(T value) { _onNext(value); }

        private Action<T> _onNext;
        private Action _onCompleted;
    }
    
    Action<DiagnosticListener> onNewListener = delegate (DiagnosticListener listener)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"New Listener discovered: {listener.Name}");
        if (listener.Name == "System.Net.Http")
        {
            // Here is where we put code to subscribe to the Listener.
        }
    };

>     IObserver<DiagnosticListener> TheIObserver = new Observer<DiagnosticListener>(onNewListener, null);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    IObserver<DiagnosticListener> observer = new Observer<DiagnosticListener>(onNewListener, null);
```

Nit: .NET C# coding conventions recommend using camelCase for variables.

making fast, specialized property fetchers either using `PropertyInfo.CreateDelegate` or
`ReflectEmit`, but that is beyond the scope of this document.
(See the [PropertySpec](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/System/Diagnostics/DiagnosticSourceEventSource.cs#L784)
class used in the `DiagnosticSourceEventSource` for an example of a fast, delegate-based property fetcher.)

#### Filtering

In the example above, the code uses the `IObservable.Subscribe()` method to hook up the callback. This
causes all events to be given to the callback. However `DiagnosticListener` has overloads of
`Subscribe()` that allow the controller to control which events are given.

The `listener.Subscribe()` call in the previous example can be replaced with the following code to demonstrate.

```C#
    // Create the callback delegate
    Action<KeyValuePair<string, object>> callback = (KeyValuePair<string, object> evnt) =>
        Console.WriteLine("From Listener {0} Received Event {1} with payload {2}", networkListener.Name, evnt.Key, evnt.Value.ToString());

    // Turn it into an observer (using System.Reactive.Core's AnonymousObserver)

>     Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>> observer = new AnonymousObserver<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(callback);

Reviewer: We already defined our own observer so maybe keep using it rather than switching to the one in System.Reactive?

of the C# language require all the work of creating the payload `object` and calling `Write()` to be
done, even though nothing is actually listening for the data. By guarding the `Write()` call, we
make it efficient when the source is not enabled.

Combining everything we have:

```C#
    class HttpClient
    {
        private static DiagnosticSource httpLogger= new DiagnosticListener("System.Net.Http");
        public byte[] SendWebRequest(string url)
        {
            if (httpLogger.IsEnabled("RequestStart"))
            {
                httpLogger.Write("RequestStart", new { Url = url });
            }
            // pretend this sends an HTTP request to the url and gets back a reply
            byte[] reply = new byte[] {};
            return reply;
        }
    }
```

-------------------------------------------

### Discovery of DiagnosticListeners

The first step in receiving events is to discover which `DiagnosticListeners` you are
interested in. `DiagnosticListener` supports a way of discovering `DiagnosticListeners` that are
active in the system at runtime. The API to accomplish this is the `AllListeners`
`IObservable<DiagnosticListener>`.

> Implement an `Observer<T>` class that inherits from the `IObservable` interface, which is the 'callback' version of the `IEnumerable` interface. You can learn more about it at the [Reactive Extensions](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/types/anonymous-types) site.

Reviewer: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/dotnet/reactive-extensions/hh242985(v=vs.103) this is the best text document on msdn I could find. I think any of these links would be fine.

            _onCompleted = onCompleted ?? new Action(() => { });
        }

        public void OnCompleted() { _onCompleted(); }
        public void OnError(Exception error) { }
        public void OnNext(T value) { _onNext(value); }

        private Action<T> _onNext;
        private Action _onCompleted;
    }
    
    Action<DiagnosticListener> onNewListener = delegate (DiagnosticListener listener)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"New Listener discovered: {listener.Name}");
        if (listener.Name == "System.Net.Http")
        {
            // Here is where we put code to subscribe to the Listener.
        }
    };
    IObserver<DiagnosticListener> observer = new Observer<DiagnosticListener>(onNewListener, null);
    //when a listener is created, invoke the Observer onNext function which calls the delegate
    listenerSubscription = DiagnosticListener.AllListeners.Subscribe(observer);

    // Typically you leave the listenerSubscription subscription active forever.
    // However when you no longer want your callback to be called, you can
    // call listenerSubscription.Dispose() to cancel your subscription to the IObservable.

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better for teaching purposes to have a single code snippet with all the features implemented and commented. You can call out specific parts as you go, but having the implementation spread out as it is makes it difficult to follow and, more importantly, makes it difficult for users to copy/paste as a starting template for their own implementation.

This code creates a callback delegate and using the `AllListeners.Subscribe` method requests
that the delegate be called for every active `DiagnosticListener` in the system. The decision of whether or not to subscribe to the listener
is made by inspecting its name. The code above is looking for our 'System.Net.Http' listener that we created previously.

Like all calls to `Subscribe()`, this one returns an `IDisposable` that represents the subscription itself.
Callbacks will continue to happen as long as nothing calls `Dispose()` on this subscription object.

> The above code never calls `Dispose()`, so it will receive callbacks forever.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The code example never calls `Dispose()`, so it will receive callbacks forever.
```

When you subscribe to `AllListeners`, you get a callback for ALL ACTIVE `DiagnosticListeners`.
Thus, upon subscribing, you get a flurry of callbacks for all existing `DiagnosticListeners`, and as new ones

> are created, you receive a callback for those as well. You receive a complete list of everything it is possible

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are created, you receive a callback for those as well. You receive a complete list of everything it's possible
```

to subscribe to.

> #### Subscribing to DiagnosticListeners

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Subscribe to DiagnosticListeners
```

A `DiagnosticListener` implements the `IObservable<KeyValuePair<string, object>>` interface, so you can

> call `Subscribe()` on it as well. We show how to fill out the previous example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
call `Subscribe()` on it as well. The following code shows how to fill out the previous example:
```

```C#
    static IDisposable networkSubscription = null;
    static IDisposable listenerSubscription;
    Action<KeyValuePair<string, object>> onMessage = delegate (KeyValuePair<string, object> message)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Message received: {message.Key}: {message.Value}");
    };
    Action<DiagnosticListener> onNewListener = delegate (DiagnosticListener listener)
    {
        if (listener.Name == "System.Net.Http")
        {

>           lock(allListeners)

Reviewer 2: Any locking in prescribed code snippets should be explained.

Author: @josalem There is something in the text that describes the locking. Do you think something more than that is needed?

Reviewer 2: I would refactor this snippet to include the _entire_ class definition, so it is obvious where `allListeners` comes from. Right now, it is a variable that isn't defined in the scope of the snippet.

          {
            if (networkSubscription != null)
            {
              networkSubscription.Dispose();
            }
            IObserver<KeyValuePair<string, object>> iobserver = new Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(onMessage, null);
            networkSubscription = listener.Subscribe(iobserver);
          }
        }
   };

    // At some point you may wish to dispose the networkSubscription.
```

> In the above example, after finding the 'System.Net.Http' `DiagnosticListener`, an action is created that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, after finding the 'System.Net.Http' `DiagnosticListener`, an action is created that
```

> prints out the name of the listener, event, and `payload.ToString()`. Please note the following.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
prints out the name of the listener, event, and `payload.ToString()`.
```

> `DiagnosticListener` implements `IObservable<KeyValuePair<string, object>>`. This means

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> `DiagnosticListener` implements `IObservable<KeyValuePair<string, object>>`. This means
```

 on each callback we get a `KeyValuePair`. The key of this pair is the name of the event

>  and the value is the payload `object`. In the code above we simply log this information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 and the value is the payload `object`. The code example simply logs this information
```

 to the console.

> It is important to keep track of subscriptions to the `DiagnosticListener`. In the above code the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's important to keep track of subscriptions to the `DiagnosticListener`. In the previous code, the
```

> networkSubscription variable remembers this. If another `creation` is formed, one must

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`networkSubscription` variable remembers this. If you form another `creation`, you must
```

unsubscribe the previous listener and subscribe to the new one.

The `DiagnosticSource`/`DiagnosticListener` code is thread safe, but the
callback code also needs to be thread safe. To ensure the callback code is thread safe, locks are used. It is possible to create two `DiagnosticListeners`

> with the same name at the same time. To avoid races updates of shared variables are performed under the protection of a lock.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with the same name at the same time. To avoid race conditions, updates of shared variables are performed under the protection of a lock.
```

> Once the above code is run, the next time a `Write()` is done on 'System.Net.Http' `DiagnosticListener`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the previous code is run, the next time a `Write()` is done on 'System.Net.Http' `DiagnosticListener`
```

the information will be logged to the console.

Subscriptions are independent of one another. As a result, other code

> can do exactly the same thing as the code above, and generate two 'pipes' of the logging

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
can do exactly the same thing as the code example and generate two 'pipes' of the logging
```

information.

> #### Decoding Payloads

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Decode payloads
```

The `KeyvaluePair` that is passed to the callback has the event name and payload, but the payload is typed simply as
an `object`. There are two ways of getting more specific data:

> 1. If the payload is a well known type (e.g. a `string`, or an `HttpMessageRequest`) then you can simply

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the payload is a well known type (for example, a `string` or an `HttpMessageRequest`), then you can simply
```

   cast the `object` to the expected type (using the `as` operator so as not to cause an exception if
   you are wrong) and then access the fields. This is very efficient.

> 2. Use reflection API. For example, assume the method below is present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use reflection API. For example, assume the following method is present.
```

```C#
    /// Define a shortcut method that fetches a field of a particular name.
    static class PropertyExtensions
    {
        static object GetProperty(this object _this, string propertyName)
        {
            return _this.GetType().GetTypeInfo().GetDeclaredProperty(propertyName)?.GetValue(_this);
        }
    }
```

> The `listener.Subscribe()` call above could be replaced with the following code, to decode the payload more fully.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To decode the payload more fully, you could replace the `listener.Subscribe()` call with the following code.
```

```C#
    networkSubscription = listener.Subscribe(delegate(KeyValuePair<string, object> evnt) {
        var eventName = evnt.Key;
        var payload = evnt.Value;
        if (eventName == "RequestStart")
        {
            var url = payload.GetProperty("Url") as string;
            var request = payload.GetProperty("Request");
            Console.WriteLine("Got RequestStart with URL {0} and Request {1}", url, request);
        }
    });
```

Note that using reflection is relatively expensive. However, using reflection is the only
option if the payloads were generated using anonymous types. This overhead can be reduced by

> making fast, specialized property fetchers either using `PropertyInfo.CreateDelegate` or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
making fast, specialized property fetchers using either `PropertyInfo.CreateDelegate` or
```

Reviewer 3: I'm not seeing either of these two methods in the .NET API browser?

Reviewer 2: Based on the context, I'm guessing it means doing something like
```csharp
PropertyInfo pi = ...;
pi.GetMethod.CreateDelegate(...)
```

Where `CreateDelegate` is referring to `MethodInfo.CreateDelegate`.

e.g., [its usage in `DiagnosticSourceEventSoruce`.](https://source.dot.net/#System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/System/Diagnostics/DiagnosticSourceEventSource.cs,1392)

Author: @noahfalk are you aware of why CreateDelegate and ReflectEmit are not listed in the PropertyInfo [page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.reflection.propertyinfo?view=net-6.0)?

Reviewer: As far as I know those methods never existed. Probably what Vance (the original author of this doc) meant was propInfo.GetMethod.CreateDelegate() as @josalem was suggesting.

> `ReflectEmit`, but that is beyond the scope of this document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ReflectEmit`, but that's beyond the scope of this article.
```

> (See the [PropertySpec](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/6de7147b9266d7730b0d73ba67632b0c198cb11e/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/System/Diagnostics/DiagnosticSourceEventSource.cs#L1235)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(For an example of a fast, delegate-based property fetcher, see the [PropertySpec](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/6de7147b9266d7730b0d73ba67632b0c198cb11e/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/System/Diagnostics/DiagnosticSourceEventSource.cs#L1235)
```

> class used in the `DiagnosticSourceEventSource` for an example of a fast, delegate-based property fetcher.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
class used in the `DiagnosticSourceEventSource`.)
```

#### Filtering

In the example above, the code uses the `IObservable.Subscribe()` method to hook up the callback. This

> causes all events to be given to the callback. However `DiagnosticListener` has overloads of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
causes all events to be given to the callback. However, `DiagnosticListener` has overloads of
```

`Subscribe()` that allow the controller to control which events are given.

The `listener.Subscribe()` call in the previous example can be replaced with the following code to demonstrate.

```C#
    // Create the callback delegate
    Action<KeyValuePair<string, object>> callback = (KeyValuePair<string, object> evnt) =>
        Console.WriteLine("From Listener {0} Received Event {1} with payload {2}", networkListener.Name, evnt.Key, evnt.Value.ToString());

    // Turn it into an observer (using the Observer<T> Class above)
    Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>> observer = new Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(callback);

    // Create a predicate (asks only for one kind of event)
    Predicate<string> predicate = (string eventName) => eventName == "RequestStart";

    // Subscribe with a filter predicate
    IDisposable subscription = listener.Subscribe(observer, predicate);

    // subscription.Dispose() to stop the callbacks.
```

> This very efficiently subscribes to only the 'RequestStart' events. All other events will cause the `DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled()`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This efficiently subscribes to only the 'RequestStart' events. All other events will cause the `DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled()`
```

> method to return `false`, and thus be efficiently filtered out.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
method to return `false` and thus be efficiently filtered out.
```

> ##### Context-based Filtering

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Context-based filtering
```

Some scenarios require advanced filtering based on extended context.

> Producers may call `DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled()` overloads and supply additional event properties as shown in the code below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Producers can call <xref:System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> overloads and supply additional event properties as shown in the following code.
```

```C#
    if (httpLogger.IsEnabled("RequestStart", aRequest, anActivity))
        httpLogger.Write("RequestStart", new { Url="http://clr", Request=aRequest });

> ```

Reviewer 2: A comment saying that `aRequest` and `anActivity` are the _current_ request and activity about to logged might make this clearer.

It's also worth adding some comments about how this is instrument site specific, i.e., users need to check the instrumentation site to see what types are being passed in to `IsEnabled3Args` so they know what to cast to.

> The next code demonstrates that consumers may use such properties to filter events more precisely:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next code example demonstrates that consumers can use such properties to filter events more precisely.
```

```C#
    // Create a predicate (asks only for Requests for certains URIs)
    Func<string, object, object, bool> predicate = (string eventName, object context, object activity) =>
    {
        if (eventName == "RequestStart")
        {

>             HttpRequestMessage request = context as HttpRequestMessage;
>             if (request != null)
>             {
>                 return IsUriEnabled(request.RequestUri);
>             }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            if (context is HttpRequestMessage request)
            {
                return IsUriEnabled(request.RequestUri);
            }
```

        }
        return false;
    }

    // Subscribe with a filter predicate
    IDisposable subscription = listener.Subscribe(observer, predicate);
```

> Note that producers are not aware of the filter a consumer has provided. `DiagnosticListener`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Producers are not aware of the filter a consumer has provided. `DiagnosticListener`
```

will invoke the provided filter, omitting additional arguments if necessary, thus the filter
should expect to receive a `null` context.

> Producers should enclose `IsEnabled()` calls with event name and context with pure `IsEnabled()`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a producer calls `IsEnabled()` with event name and context, those calls are enclosed in an overload that takes
```

> calls for event name, so consumers must ensure that their filter allows events without context

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
only the event name. Consumers must ensure that their filter allows events without context
```

> calls for event name, so consumers must ensure that their filter allows events without context

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
only the event name, so consumers must ensure that their filter allows events without context
```

                //Use lock to ensure the callback code is thread safe.
                lock(allListeners)
                {
                    if (networkSubscription != null)
                    {
                        networkSubscription.Dispose();
                    }
                    IObserver<KeyValuePair<string, object>> iobserver = new Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(whenHeard, null);
                    networkSubscription = listener.Subscribe(iobserver);
                }
                
            }
        };
        //Subscribe to discover all DiagnosticListeners
        IObserver<DiagnosticListener> observer = new Observer<DiagnosticListener>(onNewListener, null);
        //When a listener is created, invoke the onNext function which calls the delegate.
        listenerSubscription = DiagnosticListener.AllListeners.Subscribe(observer);

    }
    // Typically you leave the listenerSubscription subscription active forever.
    // However when you no longer want your callback to be called, you can
    // call listenerSubscription.Dispose() to cancel your subscription to the IObservable.
}
```

Running the provided implementation prints to the console.

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```console
```

            if (listener.Name == "System.Net.Http")
            {
                //Use lock to ensure the callback code is thread safe.
                lock(allListeners)
                {
                    if (networkSubscription != null)
                    {
                        networkSubscription.Dispose();
                    }
                    IObserver<KeyValuePair<string, object>> iobserver = new Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(whenHeard, null);
                    networkSubscription = listener.Subscribe(iobserver);
                }
                
            }
        };
        //Subscribe to discover all DiagnosticListeners
        IObserver<DiagnosticListener> observer = new Observer<DiagnosticListener>(onNewListener, null);
        //When a listener is created, invoke the onNext function which calls the delegate.
        listenerSubscription = DiagnosticListener.AllListeners.Subscribe(observer);

    }
    // Typically you leave the listenerSubscription subscription active forever.
    // However when you no longer want your callback to be called, you can
    // call listenerSubscription.Dispose() to cancel your subscription to the IObservable.
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's necessary, but you could simplify this now that you've checked in the snippet as a separate program.

It would require two things:

1. Move the checked in .cs/.csproj pair to `docs/core/diagnostics/snippets/diagnosticsource/csharp`.
2. Add `// <WholeProgram>` to the beginning of the program and `// </WholeProgram>` at the end of the program.

Then you could replace this whole code snippet with:
```md
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/diagnosticsource/csharp/Program.cs" id="WholeProgram":::
```

For any other snippets out of this code that you want to display, you just need to wrap the lines with
```csharp
// <Snippet1>
    var thisCodeIsInSnippet1 = 0;
// <Snippet 2>
    var thisCodeIsInSnippet1AndSnippet2 = 1;
// </Snippet2>
// </Snippet1>
```

Then, you could replace those code blocks with
```md
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/diagnosticsource/csharp/Program.cs" id="Snippet1":::
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/diagnosticsource/csharp/Program.cs" id="Snippet2":::
```

Again, I don't think it is absolutely necessary, but I thought I'd lay out how to do it.

Reviewer 3: Agreed - we shouldn't duplicate the code inline and in a separate file.

    {
        if (listener.Name == "System.Net.Http")
        {
          //Lock is used to ensure the callback code is thread safe.
          lock(allListeners)
          {
            if (networkSubscription != null)
            {
              networkSubscription.Dispose();
            }
            IObserver<KeyValuePair<string, object>> observer = new Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(onMessage, null);
            networkSubscription = listener.Subscribe(observer);
          }
        }
   };

    // At some point you may wish to dispose the networkSubscription.
```

In this example, after finding the 'System.Net.Http' `DiagnosticListener`, an action is created that
prints out the name of the listener, event, and `payload.ToString()`.

> [!NOTE]
>`DiagnosticListener` implements `IObservable<KeyValuePair<string, object>>`. This means
 on each callback we get a `KeyValuePair`. The key of this pair is the name of the event
 and the value is the payload `object`. The example simply logs this information
 to the console.

It's important to keep track of subscriptions to the `DiagnosticListener`. In the previous code, the

> 'networkSubscription' variable remembers this. If you form another `creation`, you must

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`networkSubscription` variable remembers this. If you form another `creation`, you must
```

unsubscribe the previous listener and subscribe to the new one.

The `DiagnosticSource`/`DiagnosticListener` code is thread safe, but the
callback code also needs to be thread safe. To ensure the callback code is thread safe, locks are used. It is possible to create two `DiagnosticListeners`
with the same name at the same time. To avoid race conditions, updates of shared variables are performed under the protection of a lock.

Once the previous code is run, the next time a `Write()` is done on 'System.Net.Http' `DiagnosticListener`
the information will be logged to the console.

Subscriptions are independent of one another. As a result, other code

> can do exactly the same thing as the code example, and generate two 'pipes' of the logging

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
can do exactly the same thing as the code example and generate two 'pipes' of the logging
```

Use reflection API. For example, assume the following method is present.

```csharp
    /// Define a shortcut method that fetches a field of a particular name.
    static class PropertyExtensions
    {
        static object GetProperty(this object _this, string propertyName)
        {
            return _this.GetType().GetTypeInfo().GetDeclaredProperty(propertyName)?.GetValue(_this);
        }
    }
```

To decode the payload more fully, you could replace the `listener.Subscribe()` call with the following code.

```csharp
    networkSubscription = listener.Subscribe(delegate(KeyValuePair<string, object> evnt) {
        var eventName = evnt.Key;
        var payload = evnt.Value;
        if (eventName == "RequestStart")
        {
            var url = payload.GetProperty("Url") as string;
            var request = payload.GetProperty("Request");
            Console.WriteLine("Got RequestStart with URL {0} and Request {1}", url, request);
        }
    });
```

Note that using reflection is relatively expensive. However, using reflection is the only
option if the payloads were generated using anonymous types. This overhead can be reduced by

> making fast, specialized property fetchers using either [`PropertyInfo.GetMethod.CreateDelegate`](/api/system.reflection.methodinfo?view=net-6.0#:~:text=CreateDelegate(Type)) or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
making fast, specialized property fetchers using either [PropertyInfo.GetMethod.CreateDelegate()](xref:System.Reflection.MethodInfo.CreateDelegate%2A) or
```

> [`System.Reflect.Emit`Namespace](/api/system.reflection.emit?view=net-6.0), but that's beyond the scope of this article.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the <xref:System.Reflection.Emit> namespace, but that's beyond the scope of this article.
```

> (For an example of a fast, delegate-based property fetcher, see [PropertySpec](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/6de7147b9266d7730b0d73ba67632b0c198cb11e/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/System/Diagnostics/DiagnosticSourceEventSource.cs#L1235)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(For an example of a fast, delegate-based property fetcher, see the [PropertySpec](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/6de7147b9266d7730b0d73ba67632b0c198cb11e/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/System/Diagnostics/DiagnosticSourceEventSource.cs#L1235)
```

class used in the `DiagnosticSourceEventSource`.)

#### Filtering

> In the example above, the code uses the `IObservable.Subscribe()` method to hook up the callback. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the previous example, the code uses the `IObservable.Subscribe()` method to hook up the callback. This
```

The `listener.Subscribe()` call in the previous example can be replaced with the following code to demonstrate.

```csharp
    // Create the callback delegate.
    Action<KeyValuePair<string, object>> callback = (KeyValuePair<string, object> evnt) =>
        Console.WriteLine("From Listener {0} Received Event {1} with payload {2}", networkListener.Name, evnt.Key, evnt.Value.ToString());

    // Turn it into an observer (using the Observer<T> Class above).
    Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>> observer = new Observer<KeyValuePair<string, object>>(callback);

    // Create a predicate (asks only for one kind of event).
    Predicate<string> predicate = (string eventName) => eventName == "RequestStart";

    // Subscribe with a filter predicate.
    IDisposable subscription = listener.Subscribe(observer, predicate);

    // subscription.Dispose() to stop the callbacks.
```

This efficiently subscribes to only the 'RequestStart' events. All other events will cause the `DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled()`
method to return `false` and thus be efficiently filtered out.

##### Context-based filtering

Some scenarios require advanced filtering based on extended context.

> Producers can call xref:System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled()%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> overloads and supply additional event properties as shown in the following code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Producers can call <xref:System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource.IsEnabled%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> overloads and supply additional event properties as shown in the following code.
```
